[MUSIC]
In this section, we will be talking
about the subtotal function in Excel.
The subtotal function returns a subtotal
value from a list or a database.
You can use it to calculate a sum,
an average, a count,
as well as a number of other mathematical
functions that are useful on working
with data sets.
You may be wondering why anyone would
use subtotal to sum a set of values
in the list,
when I could just value directly
using the sum function.
There are two major reasons for
using subtotal.
The first,
being that it will allow you to perform
dynamic calculations on a data set.
What this means is that
if you were to filter that data set
down to a select set of points,
the subtotal function will calculate the
sum of only the points that you selected,
whereas sum function will still be
calculating the some of the entire range
even though those fields have been hidden.
The second reason for
using subtotal is that it ignores
any fields containing a subtotal function
that are within the data set itself.
This means that you can sum a list
containing multiple subtotal sums
without having to worry
about double counting.
The subtotal function
takes two main arguments.
The first, being the function that you
want Excel to perform and the second,
being the data set on which you
want to perform the function.
Now, let's practice subtotals.
In exercise 1, you'll notice that we
have been given a data set that shows
the month, the team and
the total sales that those teams made.
If we select the sales totals,
we will notice that this column is in
is a named range labeled as sales A.
We will be using named
ranges going forward.
First, we are asked to
calculate the sum of the sales,
so let's start by typing = in cell G12,
followed by sub.
We then select the named range sales A.
Pressing enter,
we see that the total sum is $18,413.
Next, we're going to calculate
the average number of sales.
So, let's start by typing = again,
and then typing out average.
We don't want to calculate
the average of the sales, so
we're going to use the named range again
and we find that the average is $1,674.
Now, let's calculate the count,
seeing how many sales were made.
We type = again, then count and
we select the sales data.
We can see that there're 11 cells in
the table that we're currently looking at.
Now that we have calculated the sum,
average and
count of the sales using
the basic Excel functions,
let's do the same thing, but
this time we'll be using subtotal.
First, we are going to
calculate the sum of the sales.
So let's start by typing
= followed by subtotal.
Notice how Excel will prompt us to provide
the function that we want to perform.
Here, we want to use sum.
So let's go ahead and double click on
sum in the list to select this function.
Next, Excel's going to ask us for
the data set that we want to
perform this function on.
This is the named range for Sales A.
Close the parenthesis and press enter.
Notice that this gives us the same sum
as using the basic sum
function which is $18,413.
Let's do the same thing to calculate the
average number of sales using subtotal.
We start by typing = followed by subtotal.
We see that the average function
is indicated by the number 1
in the drop down.
So, instead of double
clicking on the average,
we're going to go ahead and
simply type 1 followed by a comma.
Now, Excel is asking us to input the cells
that we want to perform that function on.
Once again we are going to put
the sales data that is a named range.
Again, notice that this gives us the same
value as the basic average function
which is $1,674.
This is because we are currently showing
all of the fields in the data set.
We'll talk more about this later.
Last but not least,
we are going to calculate the count
of sales using the subtotal function.
Once again,
we start by typing = followed by subtotal.
We see that count is the second entry
in the drop down, so we type 2,
and now we select the sales data.
And once more, this is the same value that
we found using the simple count function.
Now, let's see what happens
when we filter the data set.
Let's start with applying the filters.
To do this, first we select headers and
then we click on the sort and
filter option on the home tab,
selecting filter from the drop down.
As you can see, filters are now showing
on the header row of the data table.
If I were to filter the table as it is,
it will hide the rows that don't have
the matching data that I am looking for.
Since our calculation fields
are on some of those rows,
portions of the calculations
make it hidden.
Hence, I'm going to cutter sum, average,
and count calculations using the Ctrl+X
shortcut and paste them below
the data table using Ctrl+V.
Now that we are all set up, let's say
we want to know the total sales for
the month of January.
In order to answer that question,
we go to column B and
we filter the month for Jan. Did
you notice what happened to our sum,
average and count values below the table?
The values that are calculated using
the basic function have not changed.
They are still calculating the total
value of the entire data table.
However, the values that are calculated
using the subtotal function have changed.
They now calculate only on the records
that are currently showing
in the data table.
Let's try this one more time.
Instead of focusing on the sales
per month, let's try and
look at how many sales teams 3 and
2 have made.
First, we have to unfilter the months.
So let's click on the filter in column B
and click on select all, followed by OK.
Now we can see the entire data table
again and we notice that the values
below the table are the same for the basic
functions as for the subtotal functions.
Now we're going to go ahead and
filter the team column for team 3 and
team 2 by clicking on the filtering column
C and selecting teams 3 and team 2.
Notice once more, how the values
calculated using the the subtotal function
update to show only the results for
the records that are currently
being shown in the table.
Now, it's your turn to practice
subtotals with exercise 1b.
Enter the different formulas the same
way that we just practiced and
then play around with the filters on
the data set to see how the basic, sum,
average and count formulas differ
from the subtotal versions.
[MUSIC]